{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1121\tx1681\tx2242\tx2803\tx3363\tx3924\tx4485\tx5045\tx5606\tx6166\tx6727\tx7288\tx7848\tx8409\tx8970\tx9530\tx10091\tx10651\tx11212\tx11773\tx12333\tx12894\tx13455\tx14015\tx14576\tx15136\tx15697\tx16258\tx16818\tx17379\tx17940\tx18500\tx19061\tx19621\tx20182\tx20743\tx21303\tx21864\tx22425\tx22985\tx23546\tx24106\tx24667\tx25228\tx25788\tx26349\tx26910\tx27470\tx28031\tx28591\tx29152\tx29713\tx30273\tx30834\tx31395\tx31955\tx32516\tx33076\tx33637\tx34198\tx34758\tx35319\tx35880\tx36440\tx37001\tx37561\tx38122\tx38683\tx39243\tx39804\tx40365\tx40925\tx41486\tx42046\tx42607\tx43168\tx43728\tx44289\tx44850\tx45410\tx45971\tx46531\tx47092\tx47653\tx48213\tx48774\tx49335\tx49895\tx50456\tx51016\tx51577\tx52138\tx52698\tx53259\tx53820\tx54380\tx54941\tx55501\tx56062\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 Fungal spillover influences plant competitive ability and affects species\'92 coexistence
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b Authors
\f1\b0 : ****\

\f0\b Contact information
\f1\b0 : *****\
\

\f0\b Summary
\f1\b0 : Tropical forests are the most biodiverse ecosystems in the world and are critical to global ecosystem functions. Anthropogenic activities have increased forest fragmentation, which could introduce new biotic interactions into tropical forests via spillover, yet little is known about how spillover influences tropical tree diversity. Existing spillover theory has mainly focused on transmission dynamics rather than plant species coexistence. We developed a theoretical spatial model consisting of one predator (fungi) interacting with two prey (plant) populations and introduced a new fungal pathogen via diffusion to mimic spillover. We aimed to understand how spillover pathogen and resident pathogen host-specificity, spillover intensity, and plant competitive abilities alter plant coexistence outcomes. Results show that spillover, contingent on plant species\'92 competitive ability, can either promote or disrupt coexistence, regardless of the host specificity of the resident pathogen. While generalist spillover disrupts plant coexistence at the forest edge, specialized spillover acts as a stabilizing mechanism when targeting the strong plant competitor, eventually reversing plant apparent competitive abilities. These effects are heightened with wind. Our model provides insight on the influences of fungal pathogen spillover on plant community composition and diversity when the effects of fungal spillover in field are unknown.\
\

\f0\b Data
\f1\b0 \
turb.csv a vector of random turbulence values used to simulate turbulent winds.\
\

\f0\b Code
\f1\b0 \
Code_final.R is the script associated with the manuscript which uses the software R\
\

\f2\i\b Packages needed
\f1\i0\b0  deSolve, ReacTran, abc, abcrf, BioManager, ggplot2, dplyer, lime, keras, tensorflow, EBImage, tfdatasets, RColorBrewer, lattice, vegan\
\

\f2\i\b Brief description of the script
\f1\i0\b0 \
To create a randomized vector to simulate turbulence that will be used in a later model. #lines 18-25\
\
Model0: baseline model with two plant species interacting with a resident pathogen in the absence of spillover. #lines 31-38\
\
Model1: Testing the effects of introduced pathogen. Two plant species interacting with both the resident and introduced pathogen #lines 40-56\
\
Model2: Testing the effects of introduced pathogen with the addition of wind. Two plant species interacting with both the resident and introduced pathogen #lines 58-&4\
\
Model 3: Testing the effects of introduced pathogen with simulated turbulence, using the vector created in lines 18-25. Two plant species interacting with both the resident and introduced pathogen #lines 76-92\
\
##To change wind speed (velocity) \
Wind & no velocity: v=0 #line 52\
Wind & velocity: v=0.25 #line 70\
Wind & turbulence: v=turb #line 88; (turb= turbulence vector #line 85)\
\
Investigation of the effects of intraspecific competition on the coexistence outcome of model0. #lines 94-135\
\
Extracting the specific population dynamics #lines 137-144\
\
Summarizing and plotting the outcome of intraspecific competition on long-term coexistence: #lines 146-164 P1<=0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, P2 outcompetes P1. P1<=0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, P1 outcompetes P2. P1>0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, Coexistence. P1<=0.00001 P2<=0.00001 Y1<0, System crash.\
\
Repeating for diffusion model 1 #lines 191-278\
\
Setting up the grid space #lines 194-195\
\
Summarizing and plotting the outcome of intraspecific competition on long-term coexistence: #lines 253-277\
P1<=0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, P2 outcompetes P1. P1<=0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, P1 outcompetes P2. P1>0.00001 P2>0.00001 Y1>0, Coexistence. P1<=0.00001 P2<=0.00001 Y1<0, System crash.\
\
Repeat for model2  #lines 279-355\
\
Finally repeat for model3 #lines 356-432\
\
Finally comment in line 433 explain how everything was repeated to vary between specialist or generalist spillover and resident pathogens.\
\
Performing 10,000 simulations by randomly drawing each parameters. The simulations are then analyzed using redundancy analyses and abc random forests. # lines 436-881\
}